I had a friend. He w I lived in LA at
the time. He was like 24 years old, born
and raised Catholic. Dad was a Catholic
school teacher. And this man realized
that he was gay or admitted [music] to
himself he was gay. And I I got to be
there for the whole thing. And he
finally decided he was going to go and
tell his parents. So he tells his
parents and he comes back and he's
telling me this story about how his dad
[music] just started balling when he
told him that he was gay. And I was
like, "Oh man, that's horrible." And
he's like, "No, it was fantastic." I was
like, "What?" He's like, "Yeah." He he
cried and then he looked at me and he
said, "I can't be Catholic anymore.
Like, I know that you wouldn't choose to
be gay and I'm not allowed to like I
then you have to go to hell according to
my religion and I can't abide by a
religion where you would go to hell.
Like there must be something wrong."
Guess what? That that guy wants to go
home, see his parents. He doesn't feel
judged. he doesn't feel managed. Now,
another story similarly. I'm just
walking today with um somebody who I
know well and she's pregnant and she was
telling me how her mom
didn't share with any of the family that
she was pregnant. And she asked many
reasons, like many times, why aren't you
sharing anything? And she had a whole
bunch of excuses, but at the end of the
day, most likely it was that she's not
married. She's been living with a
beautiful man. They're great, but
they've chosen not to get married. And
the mom is not happy with that. Feels
like it reflects poorly on her. You can
imagine this woman doesn't particularly
want to go home because when she goes
home, she's going to be criticized.
She's going to be judged. She's going to
be managed. I need you to be X, Y, and Z
so that I look good, so that I can feel
good, so that I get my way.
And if I go into like the homes of most
of my daughter's friends, the parents
are telling them how to wash the dishes.
They're telling them what what to wear.
Are you doing your homework? Are you
They're like getting checked on. They're
getting managed. Every single one of
those things is saying, "I don't trust
you to take care of yourself. You're not
you're not saying, "Hey, where do you
want me to to help you or assist you?"
You're just doing it. And so, I had this
exact same thing happen with my parents.
And at some point, I just I saw it. I
just recognized it. And I called up my
dad and I said, you know, every time I
come home, you criticize me. You tell me
what I'm doing wrong. You tell me what I
need to do to be good enough. And I
wouldn't hang out with anybody who does
that to me. So, I'm just not going to
hang out with you if you're going to do
that. But I love you and I really want
to hang out with you. So, just let me
know when you're prepared to like hang
out with me and not judge me, not
criticize me, not try to manage me.
One year passed. [laughter]
two two years passed, but he finally
called and [music]
I I came to his house and it was
wonderful to be with him in a way where
we could just be together. And he wasn't
telling me I had to be different. He
wasn't telling me that I had to change.
It wasn't this constant state of
criticism. If you're having a hard time
with your kid, it's not because they
don't love you. And it's not because you
don't love your parents. Like, we can't
stop that. We all want a good
relationship with our parents. And we
all want good loving relationships
[music] with our kids. That is as
inherent in us as eating, as breathing.
It is it [music] is part of our essence.
It's as our nature. And nobody wants
that to come with a whole bunch of
judgment and criticism and management.
So with my girls, if there's something
that I feel like, oh my gosh, I need to
manage this thing, I'll talk to them
about that. But I'll just say, "Hey, I'm
concerned about this thing and I don't
want to manage you cuz managing you
sucks." I mean, I remember the first
time I recognized this.
I was like nagging my girls or
something. They were like six or seven
years old. And I sat down and I was
like, "I hate nagging you. It sucks. It
feels like crap in my system to nag
you." And they were like, "Yeah, it
feels like crap to be nagged." I was
like, "Yeah, yeah, I remember. Like I
still have a memory of being of being
nagged by my mom." I'm like, "Yeah, this
and we like literally even at that young
age, like how do we live this life
together without me nagging you, but me
still teaching you what I need to teach
you?" Because that's my job as a parent.
And with teenagers especially, you can
say like, "Hey, I don't want to be
nagging you or telling you you have to
don't forget this and you got to do this
and did you do this?" And and when you
do that, when you suffocate a kid like
that, then the only way that they can
get a sense of self is to rebel against
you.
If you want a great relationship with
your kids, the easiest thing to do is to
not manage them, not criticize them.
Allow them to be them. Like, love them
the way that you've always wanted to be
loved. And if you're a kid who wants a
better relationship with your parent,
the best thing to do is to draw the
boundary to be really real with them and
let them know, hey, I want a great
relationship with you, but I'm not
willing to be criticized and managed all
[music] the time. It's something that I
get to see all the time in the
connection course, which is so cool,
where somebody's done the connection
course and they're like, "Oh, I want to
do this with my parent." [music] And all
of a sudden, the relationship changes
because they're talking about how they
want to relate to each other. And as
soon as they see each other, [music] as
soon as they see like, oh, you're human
and we can relate, not in a pattern, but
like the way that we both want to relate
because [music] nobody wants to nag.
Nobody wants to criticize. It feels like
crap. You just see the relationship
change tremendously. [music] And it's
because we all really, really want the
same thing. We all want to be [music] in
relationships where we are loved and
supported and we do our best work. We
thrive the most when we are in loving,
supportive relationships, not when we're
in relationships that are criticizing
us.